continued
to flourish. The field’s expansion has taken two forms. The most
obvious growth has involved the development of new and improved statistical
learning approaches aimed at answering a range of scientific questions
across a number of fields. However, the field of statistical learning has

also expanded its audience. In the 1990s, increases in computational power
generated a surge of interest in the field from non-statisticians who were
eager to use cutting-edge statistical tools to analyze their data. Unfortunately,
the highly technical nature of these approaches meant that the user

community remained primarily restricted to experts in statistics, computer
science, and related fields with the training (and time) to understand and
implement them.
In recent years, new and improved software packages have significantly

eased the implementation burden for many statistical learning methods.
At the same time, there has been growing recognition across a number of
fields, from business to health care to genetics to the social sciences and
beyond, that statistical learning is a powerful tool with important practical

applications. As a result, the field has moved from one of primarily academic
interest to a mainstream discipline, with an enormous potential audience.
This trend will surely continue with the increasing availability of enormous
quantities of data and the software to analyze it.

The purpose of An Introduction to Statistical Learning (ISL) is to facilitate
the transition of statistical learning from an academic to a mainstream
field. ISL is not intended to replace ESL, which is a far more comprehensive
text both in terms of the number of approaches considered and the

depth to which they are explored. We consider ESL to be an important
companion for professionals (with graduate degrees in statistics, machine
learning, or related fields) who need to understand the technical details
behind statistical learning approaches. However, the community of users of

statistical learning techniques has expanded to include individuals with a
wider range of interests and backgrounds. Therefore, we believe that there
is now a place for a less technical and more accessible version of ESL.
In teaching these topics over the years, we have discovered that they are

of interest to master’s and PhD students in fields as disparate as business
administration, biology, and computer science, as well as to quantitativelyoriented
upper-division undergraduates. It is important for this diverse